# F2I Energistics Standard Paraview Plugin

## INTRODUCTION
FESPP is a plugin for Paraview which allows the visualization of some Energistics data (mainly RESQML ones) stored in an EPC document and/or an ETP server such as the OSDU RDDMS.

## WINDOWS BINARIES
- Please download the Windows binaries of FESPP in the [release section](https://github.com/F2I-Consulting/fespp/releases) and follow instructions of the README.txt contained in the zip.
- If you want to build FESPP by your own, look below for instructions.

## BUILD dependencies
- [FESAPI v2.9.0.0](https://github.com/F2I-Consulting/fesapi/releases/tag/v2.9.0.0)
- ParaView dynamically linked to the same HDF5 libraries as FESAPI (if FESAPI is dynamically linked to HDF5)
	 > known to work on Linux and Windows starting from ParaView 5.11.0

## BUILD & INSTALL FESPP
1. **CONFIGURE** FESPP with CMAKE
You should fill in the following variables
   - FESAPI_ROOT : The path to the folder containing include and lib folders of FESAPI v2.9.X.Y (using [our own cmake find module](./cmake/modules/FindFESAPI.cmake))
   - ParaView_DIR = path_to_paraview_build
   - OPTIONALLY, for (experimental) ETP support, you will need FETPAPI (v0.2.0.0 as a minimal version) support (see [here](https://github.com/F2I-Consulting/fetpapi) for documentation on how to build fetpapi). Please enable the WITH_ETP_SSL variable and usually set the following variables :
     - FETPAPI_INCLUDE_DIR = path_to_FETPAPI_install/include
     - FETPAPI_LIBRARY_RELEASE = path_to_FETPAPI_install/lib/libFetpapiCpp.so
     - FETPAPI_LIBRARY_DEBUG = path_to_FETPAPI_install/lib/libFetpapiCppd.so
	 - (ONLY IF NOT AUTOMATICALLY FOUND) Boost_INCLUDE_DIR : the directory where you can find the directory named "boost" which contain all BOOST headers
	 - (ONLY IF NOT AUTOMATICALLY FOUND) AVRO_ROOT : The path to the folder containing include and lib folders of AVRO (we use [our own cmake find module](./cmake/modules/FindAVRO.cmake))
2. **GENERATE** the build solution with CMAKE once the CONFIGURE step is OK
3. **BUILD** and **INSTALL** the solution generated by CMAKE
4. **COPY** fespp_install_lib/paraview-5.11/plugins/Fespp directory into paraview_install/Plugins/Fespp plus
 
	- in the paraview_install/Plugins/Fespp folder on Linux:
	   - libFesapiCpp.so (from FESAPI install lib directory)
	   - libFesapiCpp.so.2.9 (from FESAPI install lib directory)
	   - libFesapiCpp.so.2.9.X.Y (from FESAPI install lib directory)
   
	- in the paraview_install\Plugins\Fespp folder on Windows:
	   - FesapiCpp.2.9.X.Y.dll (from FESAPI install)

- **Note 1** : If they exist (which probably not), you also need to copy FESAPI dependencies in this paraview_install\Plugins\Fespp folder. Or to put them in the (LD_LIBRARY_)PATH.
- **Note 2** : On Linux at least, you need to build Paraview with VTK_MODULE_USE_EXTERNAL_VTK_hdf5=ON and VTK_MODULE_USE_EXTERNAL_VTK_zlib=ON for using the same HDF5 libraries in PV and FESPP. We use statically link HDF5 with FESAPI for our Windows build.

## Execution
1. Only if you use MPI ParaView version, **Run** the **Paraview server** (Caution : use **MPI** build of ParaView!!!) : 
	> mpirun -np 8 ./pvserver
2. **Run** the **ParaView client** : 
	> ./paraview
3. Only if you use MPI ParaView version, **Connect** the **Client to** the **Server**
On client side : File->Connect...  and then fill in the required fields.
4. **Loading** of the **Fespp plugins** (Caution: on **client** and, only if you use MPI ParaView version, **server** sides!!!)
	> Menu Tools->Manage plugins...
	> and then select and Load Fespp.so
5. You can now load a RESQML™ file (epc document)

# Credits
FESAPI Product incorporates RESQML technology/standards provided by the Energistics Consortium, Inc.

RESQML is a trademark or registered trademark of Energistics Consortium, Inc.
